---
layout: post
title: "Last Rites"
redirect_from:
  - /2023/08/21/
---

<span style="color:green">Instructions: _Remove the noise around - snooze your notifications, plug in your earphones, watch <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pblEA6UIG1M" target="_blank">this video</a>. Keep the earphones plugged in without anything playing the background, and then dive in._</span>

<center>*</center>

It was a busy day, and because of that, I felt disconnected from myself when the day ended. It takes time to come back when your core self has taken a vacation for that long. This comes as a surprise, and is also a bit sad — but losing touch with myself for only nine hours, unable to take a step back and understand what I am feeling, feels like a _long_ time now.<br>
I was physically and mentally tired, but not tired enough to be able to get to sleep. There was still some energy left, but not enough to apply any of the "real" solutions I have at my disposal to bring internal harmony - I couldn't write, couldn't meditate, couldn't go for a run. All I was left with was the internet and my gadgets.

A relationship that could have blossomed was nipped in the bud yesterday morning. Both of us are looking for different things in life right now, and it doesn't make sense to continue dating when we know there's no future. It doesn't make "sense" is the pragmatic approach, the right thing to do. However, this pragmatism doesn't account for the fact that the polite and informed de-weeding did leave a vacuum in my daily life. Even though the seedling was small, I used to look at it multiple times during the day, and the tiny leaves' fragrance which can only be experienced but not explained used to recharge me. When I forgot or was too busy to look at it for a while, there was always a nudge, <span style="color:steelblue">'Are you still there ?'</span>. The nudge came in all shapes and forms, but the outcome was always the same - a feeling of belongingness.<br>
When the busy day ended this time and I looked at the ground, I found the soil moist, the tree guard waiting to be installed, and the manure waiting to be used, but the seedling was nowhere to be found. If you are thinking that I was looking for that particular life form, that particular sapling, you are mistaken. I was looking for any life form. Just that, I didn't realize the absence of that particular sapling until now, when I am trying to get back to myself. Don't take me for the brute one - the journey to this knowledge wasn’t straightforward.

The absence of the tree, the absence of the shade I seek multiple times during the day, वो  वटवृक्ष जिसकी शीतलता मै अश्वथामा की तरह कभी कभी ढूंढ़ता हूँ, that void pushed me to find solace in other places. हलाकि जब मैंने ये निर्णय लिया की अब मैं अपनी To-Do list में से कोई और item हटाने के लिए काम नहीं करूँगा, मेरे ज़ेहन में पहला ख्याल मेरी ex का आया था। पर ज़िन्दगी का ये अभाव उस समय  इतना प्रत्यक्ष नहीं था - उसका ख्याल तो दिमाग के एक कोने में करीब करीब हमेशा चलता ही रहता है, जैसे किसी औपचारिक समारोह में हिंदुस्तानी शास्त्रीय संगीत। मुझे पता ही नहीं था की मेरे अंदर ये गुबार पल रहा है। <br>
I reached out to my significant others, I tried to divert my mind by watching some content. After all this, after being awake for around 17 hours and having that long tiring day, I still found it hard to go to sleep. Not only I didn't want to go to sleep, I knew I can't sleep. I could feel some energy trapped somewhere, fluttering. Thankfully, I could weather the storm and didn't give in to the urge to indulge anyhow.

Finally, after going through a typical Monday morning and realizing I can't carry on with a Monday afternoon, I stepped back and decided to walk the distance. Walking, however, is not so easy - you have to find the path because you are in uncharted territory. Finding a path takes time, patience, and most importantly, belief. I went to YouTube and searched what mental stimulation I was craving. The keywords I typed were love scenes, romantic scenes, but all they showed me were intimate scenes. Intimate scenes are ugly when provided without context - in order for them to be beautiful and meaningful, you need to reach them only after you have lived through the story.<br>
I found the kind of content I was looking for during my third search - cute scenes. The second video I saw helped me find the place I was stuck, see the wedge to which one of my legs was tied through a rope. <br>
I know the above video has been tailored to enhance the beauty of the emotion - an extremely cute and beautiful girl and a handsome boy in the prime of their lives; just the right amount of socializing and seclusion for two souls to meet and connect. Added to that a waterfront, calm and tranquil water added to the setting, helped them to just be.<br>
But it does capture the situation we find ourselves in every now and then. You feel the connection that you are craving; your heart tells you to tell the brain to shut up and just "go with the flow". Sometimes, we numb the brain and go on with the voice of our heart. Sometimes, we nip the seedling in the bud — politely, yet mercilessly.<br>
The fact that the girl didn't follow her mind and kissed the boy helped me understand that there was something else apart from the moist soil, the brown and green painted tree guard, and the open bag of manure - it was the unattended dead plant we had removed from the ground. That was the rope that was tethering me to the wedge. My journey back to myself was to tenderly untie my ankle, untie the plant's roots from the wedge, and dig a grave for it - allow it to disintegrate and become manure in the ground from which hopefully another tree will blossom.

अनुष्ठान। Rites are a way of passage to the future. They help you close threads, they help you pay the respect that is required. Having done with the last rites as necessary, I am able to sprint back to the place from where I can continue my [crusade](2020-04-11-crusade.html).
