---
layout: post
title: "My Verse"
redirect_from:
  - /2024/04/27/
---

As I was about to move from the process of reading to the process of comprehending the complexities of the Monte Carlo method in Quantum Chemistry, a woman came and sat in front of me. I think she won’t be very happy with the adjective I have used to describe her, and I must confess - her unhappiness would be justified. A girl, a beautiful one at that, a girl in her early 20s perhaps, she is young to be called a woman. Maybe the use of this adjective is a reflection of the fact that I recently accepted that I am no longer a boy. I turned 34 a couple of months ago - you see, people don’t have a 30s moment now, they have a mid 30s moment. <br>
I watched her as she descended the stairs and took her time to decide where to sit. As she was putting down her belongings on the table, our eyes met and I smiled. The time between hear neatly arranging the paraphernalia she carried and taking her seat felt longer than two seconds that it was. It was this time when our gaze locked into each other's, and she smiled back.

Born of fair complexion, she is wearing a Blue Kurta. I think it’s royal Blue, but I wouldn’t be surprised if she were to contradict me - I have learned that my definition of different shades of color is erroneous. Facing her, with two empty chairs between us, I wonder what her story is. One thing I can say for certain is that she loves her parents - she has a tattoo that says ‘mom and dad’ on her right forearm. The small bindi on her forehead complements well the cascade of her dense hair, and the rings in both pairs of her middle and index fingers are matched by the equal number of rings she wears on her ears. Her right wrist is adorned with 2 bracelets, and the other one temporarily with a bright pink scrunchie (I googled that color and took help to figure out the word for that accessory); I can say with certitude that she likes to take care of herself. In spite of so many adornments though, nothing is overdone. She would definitely stand out in a crowd, but her appearance wouldn’t be loud. It would be firm, yet gentle.

All this is external of course, there is more to her. There’s an enigma in the way she is carrying herself. What intrigues me is her personality and her thoughts. What is making me think about her is the light she is carrying which has caught my attention, and also of the boy sitting behind her. She doesn’t know it, but he has peeked into her notebook twice, and observed the two strands of small white flower in her hair, just like I have. I have seen that guy a couple of times at this place - he is a regular, just like me.

She is writing something on a sheet of paper and pauses often to choose from her repertoire the right set of words which does justice with her ideas. She looks across the road and finds a group of young boys playing basketball during their sports period. I, however, don’t think she registers their game - her gaze is directed towards them but her eyebrows are raised and it feels like she is enjoying her own game of creating, editing and discarding sentences, some of her choices missing the aim, while others adding to her score.<br>
I have no way of knowing what she is writing without closely looking at the sheet of paper she is folding right now, the same paper which the guy spied on. Would he know what she was writing about ? It’s my jealousy perhaps, but I don’t want to believe that he is an observant person. No, I’d like to think otherwise.

Done with the writing, her eyes and one palm are attending to her iPhone, while the other hand is swirling the Cranberry Coffee she had been drinking. The cursory glance I got of the sheet she was writing on tells me that she is a student. Another reason that makes me think so is that she said to me: “red pen मेरे काम नहीं आता।” We exchanged a few words earlier, when we realised both of us are carrying identical set of pens - blue and black colored “Uniball eye”.<br>
But then, what does she study ? That knowledge would give me some insight into her mind. A internal voice me tells me that she isn’t a student of the sciences, for you don’t crush the paper you wrote on just now if all it contains is pointers about the uncertainty in the position of an electron, or the thermodynamic equilibrium required to define the structure of a molecule. I think it was something more evolved than the sciences. I'd like to think that she created something plainly from her imagination, that she conjured something out of thin air. When her heart didn’t resonate with what she read, she crumpled and threw away the paper that contained the ideas her mind produced.

I’d like to think she’s a student of humanities - whatever she was writing needs a fair understanding of the subject and requires contemplating on the thought. I am not saying the Sciences don’t require thought and imagination; you need to understand that I am not one of those who think of creativity from a traditional myopic lens of the arts. I understand Maths and Science, building organisations from scratch requires as much creativity as anything else.<br>
However, imagining that she was contemplating and trying to make sense of the thoughts of Vivekananda or of Plato adds a layer of mystery to her. I would love to think of her as someone who appreciates the beauty of the works of Haruki Murakami and finds a “वाह !” escaping involuntarily her lips as she reads Gulzar Saahab.

I can speculate all I want, but I won’t get to know her until I try to get to know her. The problem is, she left the cafe a while back. While I was busy hitting “backspace” and “enter” on my keyboard, she got a call from her friend and she realized she was getting late for her class. Busy with collecting her stuff and asking her friend to mark her attendance, she turned around and left the cafe, without even a glance.<br>

Yes, I agree that having a small chat with her would have been welcome, even desirable. But the fact is, a conversation with her would have been hollow without this verse of mine. The moment she sat in front of me, I was moved to write something for her. The few times our eyes met, the fewer times we smiled at each other, the one time we exchanged a conversation, every successive event made the idea of writing more compelling.<br>
Mr Keating <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-7OE6bDfM2M&t=28s" target="_blank">said</a> - <span style="color:green">"We don't read and write poetry because it's cute. We read and write poetry because we are the members of the human race. And the human race is filled with passion. Medicine, Law, Business, Engineering - these are noble pursuits, and necessary to sustain life. But poetry, beauty, romance, love; these are what we stay alive for... That the powerful play goes on and you may contribute a verse."</span><br>
Had I engaged in small talk, had I asked the reason behind the futility of a red pen in her life, I believe the ensuing exchange of sentences would have done more harm than good. That dialogue would have lifted the veil of mystery a bit, and (spoken) poetry is a subject of imagination, not facts. Before getting a sneak peek of the script of her life, I wanted to contribute a verse of my own. Without that, a conversation was meaningless.
