---
layout: post
title: "In Yun"
redirect_from:
  - /2025/08/31/
---

I think about her almost all the time. Well, not almost, पर उसका ख्याल ज़ेहन में अक्सर दस्तक देता है। The dates, the chats, the time I spent with her was comparatively small, but it also is relatively recent, hence the memories are fresh. 

The other day, I was thinking about the first date we went on. She took care to dress up properly, and having reached a couple of minutes before I did, she was waiting for me at the inner entrance. When I called out her name, she turned back and for a moment I was swept off the floor.
I have a lot of memories of that date, primarily coz I think we broke all records for the duration of a first date - a long meaningful day means a lot of memories. I remember her palm twisted in a fist covering her mouth while laughing her heart out, I remember the same fist with index finger raised making an upward semicircle in the air while her lips mouthed a “no”. I remember various conversations we had while walking amongst the green of Cubbon Park. 
I remember how her appearance changed in one single day. Since we saw some rain, the hair without a strand out of place around noon was a bit tangled by 8 PM. Some tiredness, reflective of 2 (or was it 3?) coffees coupled with a long day showed up in her visage. A different shade of herself met my eyes when I saw her sitting next to me under the tubelight of an old Bengaluru cafe, waiting for our dinner. She looked equally beautiful.


However, my memory isn’t limited to that first meeting. I remember the specific intonation of her “yesterday(s)”, with a stress on the first syllable of the word. And though that’s not the way the word is pronounced in any known accents (to me), the English Nazi in me couldn’t stand against the subtle pull I felt towards her then.

I remember her sitting at the steps of RMZ Ecoworld, with the weather getting chillier as the night progressed. If I remember correctly, she wore a pair of converse shoes. We were talking about life, interspersed with the silly conversations about stealing the lamps lit in the office front of us. But mostly she was telling me stories in her default fashion - making fun of the situation almost all the time. 
Her style of humour was not self-deprecating, but she also didn’t mock other people too. She just took a situation and narrated it in a funny way. Later, in a different context, she said that she wraps up things she is hesitant to speak about with some stupid joke to make it like a nice sushi !! “Everybody loves sushi”, she wrote. Interesting turn of events, and completely unrelated - I had never liked Sushi until then, and when a friend of mine introduced me to sushi after this conversation, I did end up liking it.
Anyway, I was almost always baffled by such a sudden turn in narration - being more of a no-nonsense person, I take almost all conversations sincerely, especially if the narrative is solemn to begin with. I don’t anticipate jokes without the said setting/context. I think it was the unexpected nature of these “sushi jokes” which led to honest and unfiltered laughs that followed.

<center>*</center>

I don’t know why, but I have always imagined her sitting in a pair of shorts and a tee, her knees a little less than a foot away from her chest, creating a makeshift stand for the book she was reading by the light of a bedside lamp in her Bhaiya-Bhabhi’s home in Hyderabad. Those days, she was visiting almost every other weekend to help take care of her Dadi who was recovering from a hip fracture.
The picture that comes to my mind is of her putting down the book and reaching for her phone after a gap of ~45 mins. Having just completed a section in the book, she remembered that her phone buzzed a while back.
Though I had reached out to her in the afternoon around 1:30, only 5 sets of messages had been exchanged amongst us during the next ~9 hours. Pleasantries mostly; small talk. This time she sent me two messages which forced me to stop dancing around the subject I had intended to talk about in the first place, but hadn’t been able to muster up the courage.
She started by mentioning that I had ‘dropped off the face of the Earth for good 10 days’. ‘Is everything okay?’, she asked, concerned. She commented that ‘we were talking just fine & and then suddenly I vanished’. And then she wrote: “Was it something I said or did?”

It was the last question which literally seared my heart. Even now, after more than 30 days, I feel a singeing sensation whenever I read/think of that message. Though we were in the “getting to know each other” phase across the 5 meetings, I had developed a liking for her in a very honest part of my heart. The idea that she believed she did/said something which led me to go radio silent was painful, still is.
That was our last conversation. She turned down my request of friendship - a choice I do understand. Her friendships are ‘limited but fiercely dependable’, something I wonder ours could/would have been.

<center>*</center>

I think about her often. And thanks to my almost non-transient eidetic memory, every now and then I find myself being transported to one memory or another as if I were living through them again - both voluntarily and involuntarily.
The last memories of her, a person in flesh in front of me, is of the day around 2 weeks prior to this last conversation. We went to attend a play by the name Trasadi performed by Manav Kaul. Sitting in the front row, I had shed copious amounts of tears. As the play ended, she asked - “Are you okay ?”, to which I replied in affirmative. When a close friend of hers who also attended the same show asked us outside ‘who cried’, she replied with a sushi joke: “I am emotionally stunted, bro”. I wonder if she was giving me the opportunity to evade the question silently if I preferred.
I wanted to have “the conversation” that evening itself, but then the 4 of us (her friend and his ex-colleague turned friend) decided to go to a cafe. There was no graceful way to get out of that situation, and I decided to see how the evening progressed.

The two of us walked around 1-1.5 kms to reach there. Embracing a height of 167 cm, she walks fast. And she walks tall - that’s one thing which struck me all the times I walked beside her. Never saw her hunch, she carried herself in a very assertive way - something that stood out to me always. The walk always emanated a subtle confidence, a hidden purpose. In my eyes she always commanded her surroundings when she was walking - heads would have turned.
And in the few conversations I had with her, I first hand witnessed the purpose that fuels her walk. She takes pride in making herself whatever she is today, not one of those who are doubtful about themselves. She is ambitious, driven to achieve the next thing in her life. But at the same time, she is not in a hurry - she knows that it’ll take some dedicated time and effort to reach there, and knows how to play the game without letting that pressure affect her temperament negatively. I think that’s one of the reasons she hasn’t left me in thoughts and mind.

<center>*</center>

If you were to ask me which memory of hers is the most prominent, I won’t be able to choose between them for the life of mine. I think it’s a mosaic of all of them, one or another keeps coming up very starkly to me at its own whim. 

The 1-2 second long moment of her turning towards me when I called out her name the first time we met. She was wearing dark coloured (blue?) shorts, a black crop top, and a black jacket. Just before she turned, her upper body was resting on her hind leg while the front leg played a supporting role - a stance she took another evening when she was perusing the menu on the digital screen above and deciding what to order. The first time I called out her name aloud, she turned around and I saw her properly done hair falling down her shoulders, on which a pair of headphones sat; and then she smiled while walking towards me to shake my hand.

It was the same sincere and honest smile which greeted me another day, when I asked her if she wanted anything when I was visiting my hometown. Only a couple of hours back she had told me that she isn’t comfortable accepting anything that she hasn’t worked for. And when I cracked a joke on her denial of needing anything from Jaipur, that she ‘hasn’t earned the gift yet’; chuckling, she showed me her perfect teeth.

The last memory I will mention amongst the others I have is of our last meeting. A red top, a full-length white skirt and sports shoes underneath adorned her being. I don’t exactly remember this memory’s timing - was it when she (and her two friends) found me waiting in the cafetaria, or while we shared our last walk together ? Was it when we were at the cafe post the play ? I think it was when we decided to proceed to the theatre after the first bell rang.
I know for sure that she was right next to me, her profile occupying most of my field of vision. Her dusky face had a look which I wasn’t and haven’t been able to decipher. She wasn’t smiling. The closest I have been able to relate to that countenance in words is how Rowling explained the look Ginny had when she was running towards Harry after winning the Quidditch Cup - “...she had a hard, blazing look in her face...”. Though this doesn’t explain the look even closely, I feel most at ease with using this phrase. Perhaps, because the explanation and my memory of her face, both, are an enigma to me.
Honestly, I have made peace with not knowing what thoughts and feelings were hidden behind those eyes. Maybe that moment didn’t mean much, maybe there wasn’t anything profound - it’s just the romantic in me trying to find a meaning in that moment. 

What I know for sure is that that particular moment, that particular look will <a href= "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KisHhIRihMY" target ="_blank">linger on</a> in my mind for years to come, like so many others have. I’ll forget the sequence of events that happened before and after - I barely remember it now as mentioned above. But that look, that look is gonna stay. Eventually I’ll forget that look as well. What will remain is a silhouette, like an aftertaste of something you cherished. Gulzar saab captures the feeling beautifully : <a href = "https://youtu.be/aGBKvlUmgCk?si=fN8q8HEYjZhLpuks&t=33" target="_blank">और होठों पे मीठे गुड़ का जायका अब तक चिपक रहा था</a>.

<center>*</center>

Why am I writing all this ? What’s the reason behind capturing a story which doesn’t have a necessarily sweet ending ? Well, the first reason is that I just wanted to somehow capture my admiration towards her. The last message, one of the last messages I sent her was “I admire you”; and I do admire her. There’s some originality, innateness in her which I was in awe of. “Was”, coz I haven’t witnessed it in a while. I don’t think I was able to express my admiration completely, hence I wanted to create something which could express what I felt about her. Words have a limitation - they can’t always do justice with what we feel, but they can at least try.

And secondly, modern dating is hard. It’s not easy to put yourself out there again and again; allowing yourself to hope, only to find those hopes come crashing down for whatever reason. I don’t think, I don’t believe she is emotionally stunted. From whatever I gauged about her, she is cautious and guarded.
<center><a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uMcG0tjYWrU&t=199s" target="_blank">मैं उचियाँ उचियाँ दीवारा रखियाँ<br>
इस दिल दे चार चौफेरे<br>
नाले सांभ के रखनी आ<br>
कोई दिल ते ना ला ले डेरे</a></center>
<br>

Even though it is hard, it doesn’t have to be all black and white. I wanted to bring the focus to another part of the difficult process - the beauty of it all. I believe that the way we look at the outcome of an event, the feelings we attach with something is in our control. And though this entire episode didn’t have an ending I would have preferred, it meant something. If things mean something, I always prefer taking some time and effort to tie down the knot properly, with at least not a purely sad feeling - I make do with bittersweet poignancy. After all, who knows if this is a <a href="https://youtube.com/clip/UgkxR0ZXFH6kGkiRpJ2GZ6nbSdESdlmgDZDX?si=yag6Dom06_Yb_f0A" target="_blank">Past Life</a>, who knows how many <a href="https://youtube.com/clip/Ugkx7hI63RCWkETIt0BMyVEr9PBO-skLa8Gr?si=znF-jHfpWr_99Tag" target="_blank">In-Yuns</a> she and I share. 🙂
