---
layout: post
title: "Reflections '24"
description: ""
tag: "hide"
date: 24-12-31
---
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;It's new years eve. In this part of the world, the clock will strike midnight within 5 hours and 5 mins. And I am alone. In a span of mere 20 days, this is the second time I am alone on a significant day - I turned 35 earlier this month. Luckily, I was able to see the train approaching towards me, hitting me on 12th way back earlier in October. <br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;To contain the blow, I enrolled for a Vipashyana Shivir from 1st Dec which was to end on the morning of 12th. I remembered coming out of the shivir extremely happy in Feb of this year, and predicted a similar outcome. Before I write more, let me give a brief about what Vipashyana is. The essence of Vipashyana is to see the reality as it is. Reality, is the present; past and future, both are fiction. To sum it up, I went to the shivir in order to feel better on a certain day. <br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;This could have been a good decision had I left the awareness of this intention at the gates of the campus. Foolishly, naively, I took this thought with me inside the campus and then kept stressing on it. I kept thinking if I should visit my favorite cafe on the morning of 12th before reaching home or should I directly go home and then visit the cafe later - an optimisation problem on time, distance, and other variables. I was also constantly thinking of, craving a particular feeling on the 10th day. Because I was almost always thinking about the future - the above three thoughts occupied my mind always, I was not able to get into the _saadhna_ properly. And this irritated, worried my "straight-as-an-arrow", sincere persona. These two sets of thinking (constantly thinking of the future, and worrying about thinking of the future and not being in the present) created a vicious loop of which I found extremely hard to break.<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;But, perhaps there are some positive effects of "just" attending/completing a shivir. Also, for only a tiny percentage of my total time, but I did learn the _vidya_ in some more detail. And then, on the last day (the 10th day), I visited Guruji and told him about the guilt, the feeling of wrongdoing (the word I used to describe my feeling is "अपराद-बोध") that had made home in my heart. He said a few lines, and those sentences lifted the weight I was carrying, I would have continued to carry on my chest. The noble silence is lifted on the 10th day and one is able to talk to fellow students. After this conversation, I was able to interact freely with other folks.<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Long story short, 12th wasn't as bad as it had the potential of being. It was mundane, it was banal, it was ordinary. But because I had no strong expectations, it didn't spiral downwards. <br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Not so lucky today. Primarily coz I didn't imagine loneliness creeping on this evening. There were signals, but I didn't see the pattern coz I hadn't seen it in action. And there was no reason to - all had been going well till now. Also, I thought I had dealt with those signals. I guess I wouldn't have been here had it not been for ~2 hours I spent with few people. Mindful of being polite and not cocky, I'll explain them by saying that the thinking pattern of these people is very different from mine. These people belong to my extended family which forces me to be polite, civilized, and thoughtful while sharing my thoughts. Btw, I must highlight that this meeting was not only a social obligation. Thought tiny, but at some level, I do appreciate their presence in my life.<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Now, I know there is some vaguness in the above section. I intend to keep it that way. The purpose of the above section is to give the reader required context without going into extreme detail. Going into extreme detail is not the point of this long note. I am here coz in order to distract myself, in order to occupy my mind with something it enjoys. Because of all the "hoopla" around new year's eve, the social "expectation" of having a good time (which, btw, is also on one's birthday), and coz I had few irksome hours in the day, my mind is craving for pleasure. I found myself constantly thinking of scoring, rolling, and then consuming some. But that's the road I don't want to hit. Also, I am not sure the activity will be as gratifying as a part of my mind believe - a lot of energy has gone in thinking about these three parts of getting high. Before and during every step, I will keep on asking myself if I should move forward. So much intellectual chatter beforehand just kills the joy in pursuing any idea. The next best thing for me is writing, and I'll use the remainder of this year to reflect upon the year that is ending, not necessary in a chronological order. So after significant amount of "ado", let me get to the point. <br><br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;If you have read the [essay](/interpersonal/2023-12-28-justification.html) I wrote at the end of last year, and if you have an analytical eye, you'll notice that there had been a significant lack of "self-love". I am borrowing this phrase from a friend of mine who read the note.